There is no IGLU Cabal. Shlomi Fish has obtained a patent on certain key
technologies essential for existence of IGLU Cabals. He is available for
license negotiations only on February 29th of odd-numbered years, between
the hours 14:15:09-18:28:18.

People, who practice IGLU Cabalism without the appropriate patent
licenses, risk teleportation into the interior of exploding supernovae.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 1968
	(Re: A TINIC Sequel)
%
There is no IGLU Cabal!

Writing this sentence followed by an explanation has been patented by Omer
Zak in US patent No. 10943307*2^66452-1. Commenting on Omer's comment has
been patented by Shlomi Fish in US patent No. e^(i*pi). The sentence
itself is a trademark of Moshe Zadka.

The existence of these patents is the only explanation one needs for this
sentence.

	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 1515
%
There is no IGLU Cabal. Some Politically-Correct ISPs block E-mail which
comes from Hell. Unfortunately, some of the brightest minds needed for
the IGLU Cabal languish in Hell.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 2203
	("Do you want to send E-mail from hell?")
%
There is no IGLU Cabal! Its members spent a better time of their lives
writing an RDBM server in a purely functional programming language. After
having to deal with designing many FP-friendly algorithms, and dealing
with ugly code that was made uglier due to FP, they found the task
of maintaining the IGLU site too mundande and unchallenging.
 
	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 1964
%
There is no IGLU Cabal. The former Cabalists have been swallowed by the
black hole of MPPL (Most Powerful Programming Language) and find the
mundane programming problems posed by Linux kernel and applications to be
incredibly elementary, trivial and boring.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 1302
	("Most mind-expanding computer language?")
%
There is no IGLU Cabal! It's members can be arranged in N! orders to form
N! different Cabals. The algorithm to find which order formulates the
correct IGLU Cabal is NP-Complete.

	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 2071
%
There is no IGLU Cabal. The problem of founding an IGLU Cabal has been
proven, in a surprise move, to be equivalent to the question of existence
of God, fully-tolerant religions and NP-complete oracles.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 2060

%
There is no IGLU Cabal! Home-made Cabals eventually superceded the power
and influence of the original IGLU Cabal, which was considered a cutting
edge development at its time.
 
	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 2001
	("Pentium 100 == Cray 1 (?)")
%
There is an IGLU Cabal, but its only purpose is to deny the existence
of an IGLU Cabal

	Martha Greenberg in Hackers-IL message No. 2057
%
There is no IGLU cabal! The former cabalists are trying to prove the
correctness of a program that prove the correctness of proofs of other
programs.

	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 2607
	("Proving the Correctness of a Proof")
%
There is no IGLU Cabal! They had to write a web application in an API
(which chose to remain nameless) in which one has to call CreateFile with
6 or 7 arguments just to open a file. By the time they were finished,
someone wrote a 30-line perl script that did exactly the same thing.
 
	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 1871
	("Perl vs. JavaScript ASP with IIS")
%
The information transmitted is intended to be ignored by the person or
entity in front of whom it appeared and may contain useless and/or
misleading material.  Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other
abuse of, or taking of any action of any kind because of this misinformation
by persons, animals,  aliens, or cosmic entities other than the unintended
recipient is bad karma.   If you received this error, please send your
paycheck to the sender and delete everything on the hard drive of your 
computer.

	Geoffrey S. Mendelson in Linux-IL message /02/09/msg00066.html
%
This sender of this e-mail is privileged and has protexia with people in
high places. Don't ask, they are in high places. You could not have
received it in error, we know what we are doing. If it has any scandal
or gossip value please notify the newspapers,  television and radio by
e-mail and then delete everything from your system.   Please copy it and
use it for any purposes, and especially  disclose its  contents to the
press:  to do so would be exactly what we really wanted. This disclaimer
is to cover our you-know-what if it ever got out that we sent it to you.
Thank you for your co-operation.  Please dial 911 if you need
assistance.

	Geoffrey S. Mendelson in Linux-IL message 02/09/msg00090.html
%
Ally McBeal as a Software House:
--------------------------------

Richard Fish - the methodology gury, usually does not actually write code.
  But he does stress doing things the right way (not in PHB sense, but in
  hacker sense).
Ally McBeal - the brilliant female hacker.  Her code is mixture of
  brilliancy - both in getting the job done, and in the quality of bugs
  which go into it.
"Biscuit" - would be the type who does not think twice of embedding a
  string representing a Scheme script into an assembly language device
  driver, and invoking Guile from it.

Other participants - left as homework.
	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message 2819
 